Look, I don't understand why we just--
Former OPD?
Then you should know better.
We're sorry. We were concerned.
It's not your job to be concerned.
Now why shouldn't I just charge you both
for interfering in an investigation?
Holt Rollins was inside the house.
Rose Gil too.
That's right. Looks like they'd been there
at least a couple of days.
-Under your noses.
-How'd they all get past you?
Out.
All right, so what now?
You gonna press charges?
Captain.
I got here as fast as I could.
Are you in charge of this case with them?
'Cause they are fucking up
your police work.
You know the reason we're on the house
in the first place is 'cause of her?
But they will not interfere again.
You're out if they do.
Now, you just give me one reason.
That's all I want, Aames.
Just one reason.
Never do that to me again.
I'm sorry. I got carried away.
But at least let us tell you what we got.
-Okay.
-This tracks.
Yeah, what's that?
Me getting leads and you fumbling?
No. You being friends with assholes.
Something happened between Holt and Rose.
There was a fight.
She had a prescription for aripiprazole.
Yeah, that's the medication
that was left behind.
We need to find Rose
before somebody else does.
In 1967, California passed
the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act,
named for the two Democrats
and the one Republican who sponsored it.
LPS was the legislation that gutted
our mental health facilities.
Hospitals closed.
Former patients flooded the streets
without the resources to survive.
In 1981, Reagan repealed
President Carter's
Mental Health Systems Act.
Years later, a study done by
a San Francisco advocacy group
reported that 55% of people
experiencing chronic homelessness
have emotional
and psychiatric conditions.
Since then, this state has tried
everything under the sun
to address the homeless problem.
Whether it's because of economics,
domestic violence,
runaway teens or throwaway children,
there has been a steady increase
in the number of the unhoused.
Holt Rollins, Rose Gil and Micah Keith
spent their formative years
living on the streets.
For them,
home wasn't just a physical place.
It was each other.
We know that Rose was in contact
with Joshua for several months
before he was killed.
Could Rose Gil be the missing piece
between Holt
and the murder of Joshua Keith?
Shoot.
Yeah.
Hey, girl. How you doing?
Better, since you've been
looking into things.
Markus, this is Officer Fernando Quezado.
Fernando, Markus Killebrew.
-Hey, how you doing?
-Nando, good to meet you.
Pleasure.
It's good to see you again.
So listen.
I asked around a little bit, okay.
I talked to my daughter and her friends
who also went to school with Drea.
The consensus is that she was a runaway.
They think that because of me.
Because of how I was living.
Hey, hey. That's not necessary, okay?
We're all here to help.
Yeah.
Nando was able to find out a few things.
Right. What you got?
There were a couple of other girls
who went missing around the same time.
-There was a sophomore at McClymonds.
-And a freshman at Castlemont.
All three of them
were in the foster care system.
That's not accidental. That's predatory.
That's something at least, right?
Maybe enough to reopen the search?
Let me just look around a little bit.
I got some business to take care of.
Listen,
I can work with this information.
I'm gonna be in touch soon.
Thanks.
Come on.
Right this way.
Here you go.
-Thank you, baby.
-No worries, no worries.
You know I'm not serving you, right?
Territorial?
A little bit.
Listen.
You did a good thing,
referring this job to me.
I appreciate it.
You're very welcome.
So what is this? Guilt?
Yeah.
All right.
I pride myself
on being a straight shooter.
Texas?
Texas.
Have dinner with me sometime or something.
You know,
I'm not afraid of you.
You should be.
-Good to see you.
-You too.
What was that about?
Trouble. If I do it right.
Since Rose left a message on the tip line,
have you been able to reach her?
No, but I was able to get information
off the pill bottle
prescribed by a psychiatrist
based in Los Angeles.
You think she went all the way back to LA?
No. She wants us to find her.
I'm still trying to figure out
if she refilled the prescription
somewhere in the Bay Area.
I think it's worth a shot.
Hey, Poppy!
Please tell me you are not besmirching
Micah Keith's good name
without ample evidence to back it up.
Is she suing me too?
No, not yet,
but you know there's still time.
Listen to me.
They're looking for any excuse
to add season two's podcast to evidence
to support their claim of harmful intent.
Is that even admissible?
You seem to be under the delusion
that her lawyers are coming to the table
in good faith.
Alana is angry.
I think Ingram was right about giving her
a chance to speak her piece to my face.
Ingram is not your lawyer.
I am your lawyer.
And as your lawyer,
who lives in actual reality
from time to time,
I'm telling you. They want blood.
Then we should cancel the mediation.
Or what's the point?
It's too late.
You gotta show up. Smile.
And try to charm a bunch of snakes
without getting bit.
And in the meantime, please,
watch what you're putting out
on your podcast.
'Cause anything you say can
and will be used against you
in a court of law.
Feel me?
Do you feel me?
It's a really nice custom.
Upright marker and stone.
Slanted. Granite with a photo feature.
And the sunrise on the upper right corner.
-And no dates?
-No dates.
I know it's not logical,
but a date feels so…
Finite.
Finite. Yeah.
Then no dates.
And for your engraving…
Thank you.
You know I love you.
When I'm done with all this,
can we take off, you and me?
Find each other again?
Yes.
Alarm disabled.
I love you with all my heart.
Did anyone see you?
No. I came through the canyons.
I missed you.
Where have you been?
I was with Rose.
She found me.
What happened to her?
-Nothing. I didn't touch her.
-Where is she now?
Gone. I don't know.
God, you two are always upending my life.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean it.
We've been through everything together,
Holt.
I thank God every day
that you found me in People's Park.
I don't know
what I would have done without you.
My great protector.
I had to.
Tough little loudmouth.
I was.
It wasn't always bad when we were kids.
We found each other.
Unless you've been running
the longest con of all time.
My love doesn't lie… okay?
But I worry about Rose.
Can you find her for me?
-Poppy--
-I got an idea.
-It couldn't wait until morning?
-No, no. Listen.
We've been waiting
for Micah to give us answers now.
Pop.
Maybe she already told us.
Why isn't Rose in Discard?
What if she is, and I just missed it?
It might be true, but I'll tell you what,
we can talk about all this shit tomorrow.
Shoot.
-What's your name?
-Lukather Shreveport Scoville.
You'll feel a slight pinch. There we go.
Can you tell me
what day of the week it is?
Thursday.
Heel to toe,
one foot directly in front of the other.
-Any loss of appetite?
-No.
-Dizziness? Disorientation?
Okay, Mr. Scoville, just follow the light.
Repeat these words back to me:
Table. Giraffe. Truck. Ice cream. Fire.
Table. Giraffe. Ice cre--
Ice cream. Ice cream.
Ice cream.
Damn it.
-I see you ain't playing around, Unc.
-What, you thought I was easy money?
As far as I'm concerned,
a little mental activity's
better for my disease
than those meds they give me.
Don't worry, I'll keep taking the pills
for Lilli and the girls. I'm just saying.
Chances are they ain't nothing
but aspirin.
You ever consider
you might be getting the real stuff?
Ain't no real stuff.
Not yet, and not soon enough.
You know,
when Noble was getting to the end,
he refused to believe
how messy things was getting.
Money was gone. Business was in the red.
If that shit ever happened to me--
It won't.
Shit.
It's nice to have you here, Moss.
Nice to be here, Unc.
Yo, big sir.
Your daughter,
Poppin' and Lockin' is buck wild, man.
She don't listen.
How I'm supposed to represent her in court
if she's not gonna
listen to nothing I say?
If I tell you how to navigate Poppy,
you gonna cut me in on your fees?
Ain't that a bitch?
So what, you a lawyer?
You need to take that surprise
out your voice.
I'm a G.
But yes, I'm also an attorney.
This man here,
he put me through law school.
Boalt. Name changed since I graduated,
racist reckoning or some shit, but…
He used to come in here as a kid,
running his mouth the same way.
Hustling the MC and the customers.
I tried to run him out of here,
but he debated me.
-I won the debate.
-Yes, you did.
Saw how smart he was.
Made sure he used it.
Yeah, I like to say I'm his son.
Number one son,
easier than raising three daughters.
-That's true.
-I got next.
Your shot, kid.
"Kid." I guess he's winning.
All right, hold on. I'll be right back.
Hey. Are you leaving? You just got here.
Hi. Yeah, I'll be back
in time for the reporter.
Is everything okay?
Fine, I'm just-- One of the teenagers
at the youth center got in trouble.
It can't wait? We still need to finalize
the pieces we're including in the auction.
Okay, you have a great eye,
so I trust you.
Micah, Micah. What is going on?
It's Rose.
Okay, this is something
that Markus should be dealing with.
No, this is something
I need to take care of myself or Holt.
Are you--
Are you still in contact with him?
You can't see him.
-Or Rose.
-I cannot wait on Rose.
Poppy's already looking for her.
I don't even want to think
about the damage that she could do.
I understand.
You know what, just let me handle it.
-It's too complicated.
-That's why you should let me do this.
I have no agenda, no baggage,
and I can keep it very simple.
Let you focus on what matters.
Like preparing for your interview.
I'll find Rose before Poppy.
Okay?
Nothing haunts me more than…
The Sapphire Club is the only time
Micah's with an unnamed friend
in all of Discard.
That night, my friend
and I went to the Sapphire Club--
But why would Micah
leave Rose's name out of the book?
Who knows? Maybe something happened.
Maybe they had a falling-out
that she couldn't write about.
And out in these streets, you know,
it's a battle every day, just to survive.
You can't live like that for years
without it messing with your head.
Let me run something by you.
Okay. Shoot.
I met with Charise Spivey at The Knock,
and that cop that Desiree is seeing,
we both agreed--
Wait, what? Desiree is seeing a cop?
Poppy, just put the phone down, all right.
That's not why I'm telling you this.
Just listen, all right.
We both agreed that there could be
a connection with these missing girls.
They were all in the foster care system.
That would make it easier to prey on.
Exactly. So it got me to thinking,
who was Micah before you met her?
Y'all ever get into that?
No.
And her books just skip right over
that period.
When we were kids,
she'd never wanna talk about it.
I never went to her house.
We always met on the streets
or at Miss Shirley's.
She just appeared one day
like a stray cat that picked us.
Yeah, see. That's what I'm talking about.
What the fuck
could have possibly been going on
that makes a little white girl
feel safer in a Black biker bar?
So how's the mourning coming?
Mourning? For what?
Micah. Y'all's friendship.
You know, stuff like that can be
as intense as a romantic breakup.
I wanna miss her.
I do miss her.
Then I just get pissed, because I--
I don't know what's real.
Did she ever love Josh?
I stifled all of my instincts
to protect her,
and she just took advantage of it.
Why?
What do you mean? Because she could.
-How?
-Don't piss me off, okay?
All right. All right.
You don't have to answer me,
but I'm telling you,
you need to ask yourself.
Chapter 8:
The Incident at the Sapphire Club.
Before the band even took the stage,
I was energized.
They were an extension
of everything I felt inside.
Punk was reduced to embers.
We'd missed the heyday.
Mabuhay Gardens was long gone.
Sound of Music shuttered.
Sapphire on its last legs,
but we claimed as our own,
just to feel the rage of the forgotten
and discarded.
But one man stood out from the crowd.
His eyes burrowed into mine,
unblinking and unsettling.
I thought it was nerves.
"He's just watching me
like everyone else," I told myself.
But his gaze was different.
I could feel him watching.
I tried to lose myself in the songs,
but the sense of unease built
until I could feel it
above the pounding music.
I looked for my friend
but couldn't find her.
I tried to get out through the back,
but he caught up to me…
-Get back here.
-…and dragged me into the storeroom.
-Come here.
-No. No!
-Shut up!
-No. No.
The pain of being punched
in the face was not mine.
It was some other girl's world
being cracked in two.
Pop. Hey, listen.
Take it easy, all right?
Listen, I spoke to the manager.
Now, she was about 12 at the time,
so she doesn't remember shit.
What's the matter? Are you okay?
Noa.
-Hey, what's up?
-I got it.
Rose refilled the prescription
at a free clinic in Jingletown.
She's still in the Bay.
Means we could find her if we hurry.
The clinic is two blocks away
from the Lake Avenue warehouse.
There's a lot of unhoused folks there.
I'll send you the address now.
Thank you. We're on our way.
We're on our way where?
Okay.
Where's Micah?
It's not safe
for her to come see you right now, so…
It's not safe?
Yeah, I mean,
she's just trying to protect you.
And she's trying to protect me too.
I had to fight her to let me help.
She's even trying to protect Rose.
-What do you know about Rose?
-I don't.
I just know
that I don't want her to hurt Micah.
The money will take care of her.
Will it?
Or will Micah
never be able to move on with her life?
The threat of Rose
will always loom over her.
It's just--
We need to do something for Micah.
This is an artist collective
with a mix of displaced people
and creatives.
I have a strong feeling
Rose could be here.
Hey. How you doin'?
-Can I help you?
-You think Rose is here?
Excuse me, you can't just walk in here.
What are you, social services?
Sorry to barge in.
We're not here to cause any problems.
We're just looking for Rose Gil.
-Why are you looking for Rose?
-What do you want Rose for?
Leave her alone.
I'm Rose.
Follow me.
Queen to B-2.
All right. All right.
I recognize your voice from the podcast.
I don't know you.
-He's my friend.
-He's not mine.
All right.
I guess I'll just hang out here.
How'd y'all find me?
You left some things at Holt's place.
Looked like your reunion
got a little out of hand.
You okay?
I'm alive.
I know you have history with
Micah Keith and Holt Rollins.
Not according to Micah's books.
Wouldn't even know I exist.
I'm here to give you
a chance to correct that.
I know.
For your podcast.
I've been looking for you too.
If you're willing to share your story,
I'm willing to listen.
Most people don't believe
what I'm telling them is true.
Is that you?
Am I gonna need to find you
someone to back up what I'm saying?
I'll start with the assumption
that everything you tell me is true.
How about we start with what I know?
You, Micah and Holt
were friends a long time ago.
You were tight.
Maybe even loved each other.
We did.
Until she sent me and Holt to jail.
I'm--
I'm gonna record the rest.
When I got out, I didn't have anything.
But I got by.
Micah was long gone
but that was fine by me.
Until I saw it.
Saw what?
Her book.
My book.
She stole it all.
She got in my head,
took every memory, everything I had.
Rose, what are you saying?
Micah Keith stole my life.
Talk to me about your grief protocol.
How did that become a staple
of your wellness program?
I had so many women write to me,
come to see me on my book tour,
that were in pain.
Emotional, physical, spiritual…
I saw an opportunity to…
Like the stages
of grief surrounding death,
to develop tools and processes
to help women navigate through
all kinds of losses and disappointments.
-Did you try it out on yourself?
-I did, yeah.
And as I was grieving
the loss of my child--
-The miscarriage?
-Yes.
I thought,
"I wonder if the pain of abandonment
that I've been holding
is actually negatively affecting
my ability to even carry to term?"
In the dark of the night,
I bet that plenty of women
have felt the same way.
Yeah. But we don't talk about it.
Not enough.
I thought by sharing my story,
I could help some women.
That's why the message resonated
with so many of your fans.
It's why I keep telling the truth.
My truth.
My first sketch of her.
You gotta really love someone
to capture their soul like this.
That's what she does.
Makes you wanna take care of her.
After I got out of jail,
I tried focusing on my art.
It worked for a while.
I was getting my shit together.
Until I saw the book.
My drawings.
Pages out of my diary.
My stories, my pain.
None of that happened to her.
It was me. It happened to me.
The attack at the club?
I only went to that show
'cause she asked me to.
Then she dipped out of there without me.
Didn't even know what happened
till I told her after.
I'm so sorry, Rose.
Sorry, sorry.
Everyone's fucking sorry.
Even her husband was sorry.
Did you share any of this with Josh?
Did me no good.
Ever since the book…
I tried to paint
to get out of my own head.
To get away from--
from feeling like nothing.
But none of it mattered.
Rose, did you ever try to come forward
and tell someone what Micah did to you?
I wrote letters
to newspapers and magazines.
I tried calling Micah.
I got booted off of social media
when I posted about it.
Who's gonna believe a homeless
Black girl who's messy in the head?
How does Joshua Keith connect
to all of this?
I know you spoke to him.
Did he know about you and Micah?
Micah wouldn't have told anybody.
That's why you bought a ticket
to see his movie down in LA.
To tell him the truth.
He called me a liar.
Like everyone else.
But then he changed.
-Why?
-I don't know.
I told him that Micah's like
a wild animal when she's trapped.
It's the only way she knows
how to protect herself.
Destroying everyone else in her way.
Joshua came back to see me.
He told me he believed me.
Look.
I made that out of an email he sent me.
"I believe you."
What's going on?
Why is the alarm going?
Is there something happening?
Hey, what's happening?
The alarms. Someone's in the camp.
What's going on?
I think there's a fire.
-It tripped the alarm.
-Everyone evacuate!
Get out of my way.
Run! We gotta get out of here.
Rose!
-Move, move.
-Poppy!
-Rose. Rose.
-You all right?
-I'm all right.
-Here, give her some room.
-Okay. It's Holt. It's Holt. Get Holt.
-Holt?
I got this, I got this.
Rose?
I'm a former nurse. We called 911.
Paramedics are on the way.
Okay. Oh, God.
Fuck off.
Break it up!
-Hey, break it up!
-Get off him!
-Gun! Gun! Get off him!
-Hands where I can see them now!
Markus!
Show me your fucking hands!
-All right, listen--
-Markus!
-Fucking hands on the ground!
-All right, listen! He's the shooter.
He's your shooter. All right?
Now listen, I'm former OPD.
-All I'm gonna do is reach for my ID--
-No, no--
Markus!
On your belly!
-You shot the wrong man!
-On your belly right now!
All right! All right.
Oh, God.
Hands up! Spread 'em!
Markus.
Poppy.
-Call Zarina, okay?
-Okay.
Make sure you call her.
Oh, God.
Code blue.
Code blue in 359. Code blue in 359.
Poppy? What happened?
Markus was shot.
We were working together on a case.
-A case? Markus works at Shelter.
-We were interviewing someone--
I don't have time for this, and I
don't wanna hear any of this from you.
Where's my husband?
He's in surgery.
I'm sorry.
You're sorry. What does that even mean?
Let's go see what we can find out.
I don't want you here.
Markus.
Please.
-Hey. Hey.
-Hey.
How are you feeling?
Shot.
God, you scared me.
Where's Trini?
She's at my parents.
She will be so happy to see you.
Ever since we've gotten back together,
I've been calling you my wife.
And you've been calling me your husband.
Well, technically we are still divorced.
Still divorced?
Why don't we fix that?
We can talk about that later.
Markus, how did this happen?
Wrestling with a suspect.
A suspect--
You're not a cop anymore.
Yeah. Well,
maybe if I was,
that piece of shit wouldn't have shot me.
Who is it?
Not right now.
This is Markus Killebrew,
you know what to do.
Markus, it's me.
Just checking in.
I can't get any info from the doctors.
So call me.
Demetri--
You better have
a good reason why you're not here.
Mediation starts in, like, 15 minutes.
Shit. I forgot all about it.
Come on, Poppy.
-Markus got shot.
-What?
Is he okay?
I'm trying to find out.
All right, look. I'll let everyone know
about your emergency.
Well, they have to understand that--
No, sweetheart. They don't, all right?
But I'm gonna do what I can.
-Do I need to drive to the city?
-No, no.
What you need to do is get your head
in the game, all right?
And to keep me posted.
I just got a call from Zarina Killebrew.
Markus was shot.
Jesus. Is he okay?
The police shot him and arrested Holt.
And what about Rose? Did they find her?
She's unconscious in the hospital.
She was shot by Holt.
Ivy, what did you do?
She was our friend.
He would have never hurt her.
What did you say to him?
I gave him the cash, and that's it.
I didn't say anything else.
You know why this is happening, right?
Poppy.